# JavaScript try...catch...finally and throw Statement
The `try`, `catch` and `finally` blocks are used to handle exceptions (a type of an error). Before you learn about them, you need to know about the types of errors in programming.

### Types of Errors
In programming, there can be two types of errors in the code:

1. `Syntax Error`: Error in the syntax. For example, if you write consol.log('your result');, the above program throws a syntax error. The spelling of console is a mistake in the above code.

2. `Runtime Error`: This type of error occurs during the execution of the program. For example,
calling an invalid function or a variable.


These errors that occur during runtime are called `exceptions`.

## 1.  JavaScript try...catch...finally Statement

The try...catch statement is used to handle the exceptions. Its syntax is:
```js
try {
    // body of try
} 
catch(error) {
    // body of catch  
}
```
The main code is inside the try block. While executing the try block, if any error occurs, it goes to the catch block. The catch block handles the errors as per the catch statements.

If no error occurs, the code inside the try block is executed and the catch block is skipped.

For example,
```js
// program to show try...catch in a program

const numerator= 100, denominator = 'a';

try {
     console.log(numerator/denominator);

    // forgot to define variable a      
    console.log(a);
}
catch(error) {
    console.log('An error caught'); 
    console.log('Error message: ' + error);  
}
```

The above program throws an error because the denominator is a string. The error is caught by the catch block and the error message is printed.

### 1.1  JavaScript finally Statement
The finally statement is used to execute the code after the try and catch blocks. Its syntax is:
```js

try {
    // body of try
} 
catch(error) {
    // body of catch  
}
finally {
    // body of finally
}
```

The finally block is executed after the try and catch blocks. It is executed regardless of whether an exception is thrown or not.

For example,
```js

// program to show try...catch...finally in a program

const numerator= 100, denominator = 'a';

try {
     console.log(numerator/denominator);

    // forgot to define variable a      
    console.log(a);
}
catch(error) {
    console.log('An error caught'); 
    console.log('Error message: ' + error);  
}
finally {
    console.log('Finally block is executed');
}
```

The above program throws an error because the denominator is a string. The error is caught by the catch block and the error message is printed. The finally block is executed after the catch block.

## 2. JavaScript throw Statement

The throw statement is used to throw an exception. Its syntax is:
```js

throw error;
```

The throw statement throws an exception. The exception can be a string, a number, a boolean or an object.

For example,
```js

const number = 40;
try {
    if(number > 50) {
        console.log('Success');
    }
    else {

        // user-defined throw statement
        throw new Error('The number is low');
    }

    // if throw executes, the below code does not execute
    console.log('hello');
}
catch(error) {
    console.log('An error caught'); 
    console.log('Error message: ' + error);  
}
```
