# JavaScript Type Conversions
`Type conversion` is the process of converting data of one type to another. For example: converting String data to Number.

There are two types of type conversion in JavaScript.

- Implicit Conversion - automatic type conversion
- Explicit Conversion - manual type conversion

## 1. JavaScript Implicit Conversion
Implicit conversion is the automatic conversion of one data type to another. For example,
```js
const number = 5;
const string = "5";
console.log(number + string); // 55
```
In the above example, the number and string data types are added. The number data type is converted to string data type automatically. This is called implicit conversion.

## 2. JavaScript Explicit Conversion
Explicit conversion is the manual conversion of one data type to another. For example,
```js
const number = 5;
const string = "5";
console.log(number + Number(string)); // 10
```
In the above example, the number and string data types are added. The string data type is converted to number data type manually. This is called explicit conversion.

## 3. JavaScript Type Conversion Methods
There are three methods to convert data types in JavaScript.

- `String()` - converts data to string
- `Number()` - converts data to number
- `Boolean()` - converts data to boolean

### 3.1. JavaScript String Conversion
The `String()` method converts data to string. For example,
```js
const number = 5;
const string = String(number);
console.log(string); // "5"
```
In the above example, the number data type is converted to string data type using the `String()` method.

### 3.2. JavaScript Number Conversion
The `Number()` method converts data to number. For example,
```js
const number = 5;
const string = "5";
console.log(number + Number(string)); // 10
```
In the above example, the string data type is converted to number data type using the `Number()` method.

> Note: You can also generate numbers from strings using `parseInt()`, `parseFloat()`, `unary operator + `and `Math.floor()`. For example,

```js
let result;
result = parseInt('20.01');
console.log(result); // 20

result = parseFloat('20.01');
console.log(result); // 20.01

result = +'20.01';
console.log(result); // 20.01

result = Math.floor('20.01');
console.log(result); // 20
```

### 3.3. JavaScript Boolean Conversion
The `Boolean()` method converts data to boolean. For example,
```js
const number = 5;
const string = "5";
console.log(Boolean(number)); // true
console.log(Boolean(string)); // true
console.log(Boolean(0)); // false
console.log(Boolean("")); // false
```
In the above example, the number and string data types are converted to boolean data type using the `Boolean()` method.
