# JavaScript Variable Scope

`Scope` refers to the availability of variables and functions in certain parts of the code.

In JavaScript, a variable has two types of `scope`:

- Global Scope
- Local Scope

## 1. Global Scope
A variable declared at the top of a program or outside of a function is considered a `global scope` variable.

For example,
```js
// program to show the change in global variable
let a = "hello";

function greet() {
    a = 3;
}

// before the function call
console.log(a);

//after the function call
greet();
console.log(a); // 3
```
> Note: It is a good practice to avoid using global variables because the value of a global variable can change in different areas in the program. It can introduce unknown results in the program.

## 2. Local Scope
A variable can also have a local scope, i.e it can only be accessed within a function.

For example,
```js
// program showing block-scoped concept
// global variable
let a = 'Hello';

function greet() {

    // local variable
    let b = 'World';

    console.log(a + ' ' + b);

    if (b == 'World') {

        // block-scoped variable
        let c = 'hello';

        console.log(a + ' ' + b + ' ' + c);
    }

    // variable c cannot be accessed here
    console.log(a + ' ' + b + ' ' + c);
}

greet();
```

In the above program, variable

-   a is a `global variable`. It can be accessed anywhere in the program.
-   b is a `local variable`. It can be accessed only inside the function greet.
-   c is a `block-scoped variable`. It can be accessed only inside the if statement block.

Hence, in the above program, the first two `console.log()` work without any issue.

However, we are trying to access the block-scoped variable c outside of the block in the third `console.log()`. This will `throw an error`.

> Note: In JavaScript, var is `function scoped` and let is `block-scoped`. If you try to use var c = 'hello'; inside the if statement in the above program, the whole program works, as c is treated as a local variable.