# JavaScript Function and Function Expressions

## JavaScript Function
A function is a block of code that performs a specific task.

Suppose you need to create a program to create a circle and color it. You can create two functions to solve this problem:

-   a function to draw the circle
-   a function to color the circle
Dividing a complex problem into smaller chunks makes your program easy to understand and reusable.

JavaScript also has a huge number of inbuilt functions. For example,` Math.sqrt()` is a function to calculate the square root of a number.

### Declaring a Function
The syntax to declare a function is:
```js
function nameOfFunction () {
    // function body   
}
```
-   A function is declared using the function keyword.
-   The basic rules of naming a function are similar to naming a variable. It is better to write a descriptive name for your function. For example, if a function is used to add two numbers, you could name the function add or addNumbers.
-   The body of function is written within {}.

For example,

```js
// declaring a function named greet()
function greet() {
    console.log("Hello there");
}
```

### Calling a Function
In the above program, we have declared a function named greet(). To use that function, we need to call it.

Here's how you can call the above `greet()` function.
```js
// function call
greet();
```

### Function Parameters
A function can also be declared with parameters. A parameter is a value that is passed when declaring a function

Syntax
```js
function nameOfFunction (parameter1, parameter2, parameter3) {
    // function body   
}
```
-   A function can have any number of parameters.
-   The parameters are separated by a comma.
-   The parameters are optional. If a function does not have any parameters, you can still declare it with empty parentheses.

For example,
```js
// declaring a function named greet()
function greet(name) {
    console.log("Hello there, " + name);
}
greet("John");
```

### Function Return
-   The `return` statement can be used to return the value to a function call.

-   The `return` statement denotes that the function has ended. Any code after return is not executed.

-   If nothing is returned, the function returns an `undefined` value.

Syntax
```js
function nameOfFunction (parameter1, parameter2, parameter3) {
    // function body
    return value;   
}
```
For example,
```js
// declaring a function named greet()
function greet(name) {
    return "Hello there, " + name;
}
console.log(greet("John"));
```
### Function Expression
A function expression is a function that is assigned to a variable. The syntax of a function expression is:
```js
const nameOfFunction = function (parameter1, parameter2, parameter3) {
    // function body   
}
```
For example,
```js
// declaring a function named greet()
const greet = function (name) {
    return "Hello there, " + name;
}
console.log(greet("John"));
```
