# Javascript setTimeout()

The `setTimeout()` method executes a block of code after the specified time. The method executes the code only once.

The commonly used syntax of JavaScript setTimeout is:
```js
setTimeout(function, milliseconds);
```
Its parameters are:

- function - a function containing a block of code
- milliseconds - the time after which the function is executed
The setTimeout() method returns an `intervalID`, which is a `positive integer`.

### setTimeout() Example

```js
// program to display a text using setTimeout method
function greet() {
    console.log('Hello world');
}

setTimeout(greet, 3000);
console.log('This message is shown first');
```
In the above program, the `setTimeout()` method calls the `greet()` function after 3000 milliseconds (3 second).

Hence, the program displays the text Hello world only once after 3 seconds.

> Note: The `setTimeout()` method is useful when you want to execute a block of once after some time. For example, showing a message to a user after the specified time.

### The `setTimeout()` method returns the interval id. For example,
```js
// program to display a text using setTimeout method
function greet() {
    console.log('Hello world');
}

let intervalId = setTimeout(greet, 3000);
console.log('Id: ' + intervalId);   
```

# JavaScript clearTimeout()

The `clearTimeout()` method is used to stop the execution of a function that is scheduled using the `setTimeout()` method.

The commonly used syntax of JavaScript clearTimeout is:
```js
clearTimeout(intervalID);
```
Its parameters are:

- intervalID - the ID of the function that is to be stopped

### clearTimeout() Example

```js
// program to display a text using setTimeout method

function greet() {
    console.log('Hello world');
}

let intervalId = setTimeout(greet, 3000);
console.log('Id: ' + intervalId);

clearTimeout(intervalId);
```
In the above program, the `setTimeout()` method calls the `greet()` function after 3000 milliseconds (3 second).

Hence, the program displays the text Hello world only once after 3 seconds.

> Note: The `clearTimeout()` method is useful when you want to stop the execution of a function that is scheduled using the `setTimeout()` method.

### The `clearTimeout()` method returns the interval id. For example,
```js
// program to display a text using setTimeout method
function greet() {
    console.log('Hello world');
}

let intervalId = setTimeout(greet, 3000);

clearTimeout(intervalId);
console.log('Id: ' + intervalId);
```