# JavaScript Promise and Promise Chaining

## 1 JavaScript Promise

In JavaScript, a promise is a good way to handle asynchronous operations. It is used to find out if the asynchronous operation is successfully completed or not.

A promise may have one of three states.

-   Pending
-   Fulfilled
-   Rejected

A promise starts in a pending state. That means the process is not complete. If the operation is successful, the process ends in a fulfilled state. And, if an error occurs, the process ends in a rejected state.

For example, when you request data from the server by using a promise, it will be in a pending state. When the data arrives successfully, it will be in a fulfilled state. If an error occurs, then it will be in a rejected state.

### 1.1 Create a Promise
To create a promise object, we use the Promise() constructor.
```js
let promise = new Promise(function(resolve, reject){
     //do something
});
```
The `Promise()` constructor takes a function as an argument. The function also accepts two functions `resolve()` and `reject()`.

If the promise returns successfully, the `resolve()` function is called. And, if an error occurs, the `reject()` function is called.

Example:
```js
const count = true;

let countValue = new Promise(function (resolve, reject) {
    if (count) {
        resolve("There is a count value.");
    } else {
        reject("There is no count value");
    }
});

console.log(countValue);
```
In the above program, a `Promise` object is created that takes two functions: `resolve()` and `reject()`. resolve() is used if the process is successful and `reject()` is used when an error occurs in the promise.

The promise is resolved if the value of count is true.

### 1.2 Promise Chaining
Promises are useful when you have to handle more than one asynchronous task, one after another. For that, we use promise chaining.

You can perform an operation after a promise is resolved using methods then(), catch() and finally().

### 1.2.1 JavaScript then() method
The then() method is used with the callback when the promise is successfully fulfilled or resolved.

The syntax of then() method is:
```js
promiseObject.then(onFulfilled, onRejected);
```
Example:
```js
// returns a promise

let countValue = new Promise(function (resolve, reject) {
  resolve("Promise resolved");
});

// executes when promise is resolved successfully

countValue
  .then(function successValue(result) {
    console.log(result);
  })

  .then(function successValue1() {
    console.log("You can call multiple functions this way.");
  });
```
In the above program, the `then()` method is used to handle the promise. The first function is called when the promise is resolved. The second function is called when the promise is rejected.

### 1.2.2 JavaScript catch() method
The catch() method is used with the callback when the promise is rejected or if an error occurs. For example,

The syntax of catch() method is:
```js
promiseObject.catch(onRejected);
```

Example:
```js
// returns a promise

let countValue = new Promise(function (resolve, reject) {
  reject("Promise rejected");
});

// executes when promise is rejected

countValue
  .then(function successValue(result) {
    console.log(result);
  })

  .catch(function errorValue(error) {
    console.log(error);
  });
```
In the above program, the `catch()` method is used to handle the promise. The first function is called when the promise is resolved. The second function is called when the promise is rejected.

### 1.2.3 JavaScript finally() method
The finally() method is used with the callback when the promise is resolved or rejected. For example,

The syntax of finally() method is:
```js

promiseObject.finally(onFinally);
```
Example:
```js
// returns a promise

let countValue = new Promise(function (resolve, reject) {
  resolve("Promise resolved");
});

// executes when promise is resolved or rejected

countValue
  .then(function successValue(result) {
    console.log(result);
  })

  .catch(function errorValue(error) {
    console.log(error);
  })

  .finally(function finallyValue() {
    console.log("This is finally block");
  });
```
In the above program, the `finally()` method is used to handle the promise. The first function is called when the promise is resolved. The second function is called when the promise is rejected. The third function is called when the promise is resolved or rejected.

## 2 JavaScript Promise.all()

The Promise.all() method is used to execute multiple promises simultaneously. It returns a single promise that resolves when all of the promises in the iterable argument have resolved or when the iterable argument contains no promises. It rejects with the reason of the first promise that rejects.

The syntax of Promise.all() method is:
```js

Promise.all(iterable);
```

Example:
```js
let promise1 = Promise.resolve(3);
let promise2 = 42;
let promise3 = new Promise(function (resolve, reject) {
  setTimeout(resolve, 100, "foo");
});

Promise.all([promise1, promise2, promise3]).then(function (values) {
  console.log(values);
});
```
In the above program, three promises are created. The `Promise.all()` method is used to execute all the promises simultaneously. The `then()` method is used to handle the promise.